i think i won't it won't surprise you if
i'll say that it's about the
storytelling
um it's about it's about coming up with
at the end of the day marketing is about
how do you take what you have to offer
the world and
communicate it effectively to the right
people in the right way welcome to 20
minute leaders
just sit back relax and learn from the
leaders of today
it's a journey each one is different
unique inspiring
let's get started
this episode is powered by j ventures a
community driven vc fund in silicon
valley
in partnership with lomitech and
sponsored by hippo insurance
touring opposed labs and hillel stanford
let's talk marketing and scaling meet
ari applebaum
vp of marketing at audioburst ahri
scales israeli startups globally through
brand building
he has successfully positioned countless
companies to succeed in crowded markets
land fortune 500 customers attract
significant funding
and exit he currently serves as a vp of
marketing at audio burst
the audio search and discovery platform
before that he was the head of
communications and marketing analytics
leader appsflyer
vp of marketing at video platform
anyclip and vpa leading tech
pr firm finn partners ari applebaum
thank you for joining me 20 minute
leaders how are you
i'm great thanks for having me i'm a big
fan i'm
i'm a big fan all the way from jerusalem
you're talking to me now
uh talking about pr and marketing and
branding and but
all of those in the context of strategic
thinking and not just about you know how
to
do the marketing and do the car but
really when why is it good for what is
it good for and what is the right way to
position yourself
either in early stage or late stage to
do this properly and
and i think that there's so much to
learn from your incredible experiences
either you know
vp marketing at any clip the head of
communications and apps fire
incredible company that i love today
you're with audioburst
and obviously audio is bursting as we're
seeing today and we just talked a little
bit about clubhouse
so way too much for us to talk about but
before all that we have to go
all the way back to your high school
days and you're building
a wedding proposal website and you're
building a
video streaming platform what was that
about
uh as a high schooler i to to make ends
meet i uh
i had my own business i was what they
call a webmaster and uh it was cool
i did in the basement and learned html
and javascript
and uh some of my first projects were
pro bono and then i started charging and
making money
and it was really interesting that i had
a partner in tel aviv who had a
graphic design studio together we built
a website for some
joint clients and through emblaze i
don't know if you remember them in the
90s they were successful
israeli company they gave us permission
to use their product before
it was live and it was the first video
streaming solution
so i believe i was the first one to
create a website that
had a streaming video without
downloading any
you know any software which was cool it
worked you know what it went
so great what what do you mean
six or so wow
but i realized it was gold but i didn't
know how big it was i didn't save
anything i have no proof you'll have to
take my word for it
i love it so i i'm definitely taking
your word for it and now there is proof
now it's documented
so ari talk to me a little bit about
your entrance to the world of
of of strategic thinking behind this
idea of brand and how
do you you know you know you create your
brand in a way that is you know
scalable and and you know com able to
compete with what you call before you
know the guerrillas of the world
talk to me a little bit about brandon
your your you know interaction with it
yeah so i i find that a lot of israeli
startups are very focused
on when they think of marketing they
think of um
tactics and tactics are really important
especially when you're talking about
growth you have to build all the systems
and the funnels and optimize
but too often i find that ceos and vp
marketings will jump straight into that
without building a brand first and of
course that's the foundation of any good
marketing strategy so when i work with
startups even early stage startups even
before there's a product
i start working with them on positioning
on
building a brand uh that's your secret
weapon you know when you have
such a small marketing budget as most
small startups do
and you're up against up against the 800
pound gorillas
your secret sauce and weapon is a really
really strong brand and that means
a story that you could tell that target
audiences will find compelling
and a narrative that everything will
stream
and flow through that is laser focused
on what makes you different what makes
you unique and why people should
should care about you right and that
makes a lot of sense and so
you know speaking to a lot of the early
stage startups that are starting today
you know the focus
initially is not necessarily on this
brand in the marketing pr
also because you just don't have the
budget to go and be on the same vertical
as a lot of these other big companies
so you have to be a little smarter than
that and you have to be both lean but
very strategic so
how do you find early stage startups
should go about
you know thinking how much time do i
allocate to branding and pr how much
you know of my funding should i allocate
to that how to even go about thinking
about how to you know create this
strategy behind it
so i don't think it has to always time
is a scarce resource i agree
uh but i don't think you have to waste
or spend a lot of money
on it at first right so it's about
making the time to think about these
issues i have a document that i share
with founders
where we work through just articulating
your vision your mission
your unique value proposition you know
messaging matrix
a narrative framework and those are
things that you can do
from the very beginning they'll adapt as
you go along but
um i think that it's important to do
that even before you launch your your
product because it
this kind of thinking forces you to ask
difficult questions that will affect
your
product strategy your r d so it's not
it's not like many founders think okay
we'll develop the product
and then marketing will come before
sales right once we're ready but that's
too late especially for building a grant
the story has to come first and in terms
of a budget i think
um you know as a marketer i think it's
important to to devote
a significant budget but there's things
you can do early on in terms of
quick wins with the media and things
like that that won't require
an agency that obviously early stage
startups can't afford
right now that makes a lot of sense so
alright let's go back a little bit to
your journey walk me through
you know your experiences and the
different things that you've experienced
in these different companies and what
i'd love to really do
is is you know extract some of those
nuggets through those experiences
because you've held a bunch of different
hats in different positions and
different
stages of companies and so i i'd really
love to hear
some of those personal experiences and
and how you learn from those experiences
and what i can extrapolate you know for
myself
as i'm gonna go about building my own
venture very cool
okay so my early days i started out at a
bunch of uh pr firms rooter finn
fit partners venture first small and big
pr firms and really my focus there was
helping israeli startups
tell their story abroad mostly in the us
a lot of
brand development and a lot of classic
pr media relations analyst relations
things like that um some of the lessons
i learned there are what we just
discussed earlier it's really really
important when the israeli startups are
up against the much much bigger
companies almost i found
from my beginning of my career that
almost every israeli startup
is really good at what they do uh but in
terms of
perceptions um they're up against
companies that can outspend them
ten or a hundred to one or a thousand to
one
um right so again it goes back to and i
realized that i spent
so much time on competitive analysis
there
um and getting things right and we had a
this was
15 years ago we had a process called an
idea lens
which was forcing you to look through a
lens and bring bring um you know survey
your customers your partners
investors uh internally externally
and sort of really analyze the different
perceptions before you start and
once you're sitting on a pile of data
you can really find interesting things
and hone in on your
and again that doesn't require a budget
you could do that yourself too
um so that was an interesting exercise
exercise and i learned the importance of
that
it was also the early days of digital
media so we just started out with
uh building presents for our clients on
uh social media and i was able to
uh see how that has evolved over the
years um
then i moved in house and um i started
out at a nonprofit actually in boston um
moved back to israel and then went back
into tech and
my positions were as you said any clip
vp marketing head of
comms at apps fire and now vp marketing
at uh audioburst
so some of my experiences you know at uh
at any clip i was there for
for three years and what was interesting
there was
um the company had a bunch of pivots and
it was interesting to see how you
maintain the brand but also rebrand and
adjust it as you
as you evolve when your product strategy
evolves and you go after different
markets markets so that was interesting
and there was a lot of
work on the fly um i also learned the
importance of
proper product product launches some
product launches were
planned months in advance six months in
advance um
but actually when we had a product that
was really strategic and we decided to
launch it in four to six weeks i was one
of the most
the biggest thrills um doing a to z
all the material and the the product
strategy and the
the pr plan and um and then at the hit
of a button the exhilaration when you
when you launch properly and everything
all the ducks um are lined in a row and
and and you get it right that's that's
really great so um
and i'll tell you the truth one of the
products we did it wasn't actually a new
product right it was
some features that we we elevated and
and uh
sort of wrapped in a new new facade and
it worked and it will really
so i do think that even when you don't
have a new product there is a way to use
the power of a strong launch to get some
good successes
at appsflyer i was fortunate enough to
be there
um when the company raised the the
biggest round which turned them into a
unicorn uh since then they're now a
double unicorn and um and it was really
really
interesting to see the power of a well
um
well-run machine and to be part of them
to run the
the communications around that uh a
really global organization so
we had the pr come out um in in
probably 15 different languages and
dozens of countries
and what i found was can you walk me
through the strategy of how do you even
think about okay this is what's actually
happening in terms of the company so
that you know this
we can look at it from the lenses if you
know there's we have you know
hundreds of pages of contracts which
then you have to dilute to sort of this
message like what do we want the world
to understand
through this is it amount of money that
is raised is it a new partnership that
is formed is it the transition to a
unicorn status you know at the end
what i'm constantly amazed about is that
you know companies go through these you
know
months of preparation for a specific
event right and then once that event
happens they you know
media what we are see as you know
consumers or as viewers we see the the
headline the gist of it
and i always think how much thought
actually goes into this
gist that is being that is being written
there and so i would love to hear from
you a little bit
how do you strategically think about
okay what do we actually want to portray
to the world
yeah so you're right a lot of thought
goes into that and um
i because i'm i'm no longer there i
don't want to give the specifics of
you know the thought process process
went it does require
uh especially at a a company that has
you know an 80-person marketing team and
uh yeah thousand employees it requires a
lot of um
hands-on deck the ceo with something big
like that is always involved and always
has his vision of what he wants
um and at the end of the day you're
exactly right you have to come up with
three messages no no more that you want
to resonate in the press release in the
pitches
in the material you know on your website
and and also talking points which you
create for the
uh employees and for the leadership to
to use so
yeah at the end of that you choose one
main one and then you know maybe three
others um and and everything needs to
speak the same language everything has
to go through
the same uh prism again so i agree with
you that that's important
the process is a lot of discussions it's
a lot of give and take
um and conversations and it's
interesting that
some companies do focus you know i've
followed over the last year
a lot of startups israeli startups that
turned into unicorns a lot of them are
focused on the
we are now a unicorn actually at apps
flyer
uh the company took a different a
different approach that wasn't uh
uh the focus of the release that there
was relationships made
there was the leadership the market
leadership um you know when there's so
many unicorns i think just
four or five in israel in the last month
it it's less rare and it's less
the the news maybe i i
i think that one thing that amazes me
constantly through this show is
understanding how complicated
you know every little bit is and i think
that at the end you know it's
more about giving respect to the
complexity of this well-oiled machine
right
that it's not just happenstance you know
things happen for a reason and
you know people put a lot of thought
into you know everything that we see
and and so i'm inspired by you know and
i'm humbled by you know how much
complexity there is and how much there
is still to uncover why are you so
excited about
this world of marketing and pr and
branding well what really
gets you going about it
i think i won't it won't surprise you if
i'll say that it's about the
storytelling
um it's about it's about coming up with
at the end of the day marketing
is about how do you take what you have
to offer the world
and communicate it effectively to the
right people in the right way
um and a lot of that is is is the story
you know it's
usually words but also of course uh
increasingly visual storytelling images
right video and audio now right so
i love the idea of again creating a
really compelling story that you see
resonates and moves people and it's not
intellectual you have to
again a lot of israelis i think founders
are very intellectual and they think
a lot about the messages and what we'll
convince
but really convincing is not about
making the right argument it's about
um giving people something to believe in
to connect
with uh like simon sinek says that
uh you know starting with the why let it
let people connect to the y to the
vision to what moves you and that'll
move them
so i think appealing to people
compelling them moving them to
act um and then finding all these
different channels and ways
and modalities to to do that is what
keeps me interested in in marketing
i love it so today you're a vp of
marketing at audioburst
and like we said before audio is
literally bursting
in this world and you have chosen to
take on this challenge and the world is
changing dramatically it's changed it's
been changing over the past few years
it's changed last week with the you know
the boom of clubhouse and people
understanding that audio
is becoming a more and more relevant
part of our lives
and is integrated basically into
anything and you're now a part of this
fantastic marketplace which lets
creators
you know leverage the use of of audio
around them so tell me a little bit
about audioburst and i'd love to hear a
little bit about the challenges that
you're tackling
as vp of marketing at audioburst and i'm
sure that there are a lot of them
yeah for sure so i joined audioburst
three months ago
because i'm super excited about the
space of as you said of audio there's so
much interesting things happening
and um we're a search we're the audio
search and delivery platform
um and from the early days five years
ago before people were
really listening to podcasts as a
mainstream activity
uh the founders of audiobursts who are
very accomplished uh
seasoned entrepreneurs um they realized
that the world was going in this
direction
and the vision has been from day one to
organize
the world's audio content and make it
accessible to users anywhere and
everywhere just like you know google
does for information
for audio content and really
discoverability
remains the big the big issue how do you
find the right audio content how do you
discover it how do you personalize it to
users
and we've taken that on and the platform
is really really sophisticated uses ai
to
analyze and make content accessible
we're b2b so we work with
platforms that want to um integrate this
next-gen listening experience to their
products
and you asked me about my marketing
challenges and really it's it's building
the brand
and it's educating the market because uh
we've sort of we've
while we uh we've come to expect from
video
uh like a netflix type of experience
which is very personalized and very
sophisticated
people have sort of they've come to uh
realize that they have to search through
all these you know million seven hundred
thousand podcasts for the
the one that's right for them and listen
to a 45 minute
podcast to see if it's interesting and
we're trying to break that we're trying
to say no there's a new way to do it and
it's for
short form audio but that's a lot for me
to do as a marketer i need to educate
the market
about this totally new way to consume
audio content so that excites me
and what preparation do you do for that
so first of all obviously you're
you you you're buying into this idea but
then how do you go ahead and
you know strategically think back and
say okay so i bought into this now how
do i get
billions of people to buy into this as
well it's a good question i'm still
working on that
um i'm having conversations with with
experts
with experts with uh with people within
the voice and audio industry
because i'm new to it so i'm humble and
i understand that i have a lot to learn
myself
and then i'm listening i'm listening to
people who don't understand what
audioverse
does and i i document their questions
and i
i try explaining it in different ways
and then seeing if it works or not
oftentimes you think you explain
something well but then by the answer
you
by the quest the follow-up question you
understand that they still don't
understand what you do
um so i'm on this quest to find the
shortest you know most concise and most
effective way to explain
not just what we do but why um this
answer is a critical need
uh and once i figure it out i'm gonna
i'll let you know
i love that ari tell me a little bit
about you know what
key piece of advice you would give to
early stage founders let's say
we're talking to now a pre-series a
founders that you know are
are thinking critically about how to
position themselves in the market what
types of things they want
the average person on the street to know
about them and
one of the key things that i've set out
for myself and whatever venture i'll do
later in my life is
i want to work on something that if
somebody stops me on the street after
the second sentence of me explaining
what i do
they're saying i want in either as a
consumer investor
you know partner whatever but but how do
you you know go about what piece of
advice would you say to somebody like me
or
or any of my friends that are thinking
through this now
so i think your advice is great uh find
a way to get people to want to connect
and that goes back to the starting with
why
not don't focus so much on the how and
the what but why is what you're doing
important
if if people don't relate to the why
then maybe you're not doing something
big enough or important enough
um secondly i think seek out mentors as
many as possible
people are experienced people are
extremely generous with their
with their time um and i i see how much
value it gives to early stage
entrepreneurs just to have somebody
experience to
have these discussions with and share
docs with i try to give back as much as
i can
to the community with the little time i
have i
i i mentor a startups at best challenge
at a flow and the jerusalem college of
technology
um and palestinian
internships sorry palestinian mentorship
program which is a new program
so i think it's really important for
entrepreneurs to give back
especially as they start their and
continue their their careers
but definitely for the founders to seek
out as many mentors as they can
from diverse with diverse skill sets and
experiences
uh from the very beginning i love that
ari thank you so much for coming here
and for sharing with me your insights
and your experiences
go by wait wait it goes by wait wait
like five
but exactly it felt like three to me uh
but all right the most important
question is still ahead of us uh
three words that you would use to
describe yourself obviously i didn't
give you enough
time to think about this but i still
have to know you know on the top of your
mind what are three things that you
think that other people would
would say ari is
uh it's a tough question i hope they
would say um
values driven i don't know if that's one
word or two yeah
there's the hyphen in there there's a
hyphen
uh hard working and uh creative
values driven hardworking and creative
ari tadaga thank you very very much
and i look forward to seeing more about
audiobursts and learning more from you
and stay safe and stealthy you too
thanks michael thank you bye bye
you